July 2001
     World Of Aqua 2
     Author - Dave Brasgalla
     Summer Of X
     Apple's  OS  X is now shipping as the default system on all Macs.Rave reviews are pouring in, even from the PC side! The Macintosh world as we know it is shifting over to X, slowly and surely.  The  Iconfactory's  early  success  was  based  in  large  degree  on  the "World  Of Copland" series, which gave users tightly-crafted  alternative  icons  for everyday objects and system components in Apple's latest style. Copland was all the  rage then, but Apple has now abandoned that look for a sleek photo-realistic approach. With that in mind, I decided to take the "World Of..." series into the new millennium.  This  is  the second installment of the new series, providing all sorts of fun new iconography that will look great with your  new  system! This time around, you'll find replacement folders for the User-level directories that weren't covered in  WOA1,  the  newest  Apple  portable  hardware, plus all sorts of everyday objects with a global flair, from Japanese postboxes to classic Swedish telephones.  If what you want isn't in this set, it will most likely show up soon in another!  In  the  meantime,  you can start pasting these around your Macintosh as you set about making OS X your new home. If you don't have X yet, these can help you get that "lickable" look and feel until you make the big move...
     Dave

     Thanks & Acknowledgements:
     Special thanks to everyone who took the time to write in with suggestions and feedback after WOA1 was released!  As  always,  thanks  to  Ged,  Mindy,  Talos,  Corey  and  especially  Kate for invaluable support, advice, critique and brainstorming.  A  million  thanks to Craig Hockenberry for IconBuilder Pro, without which I would *still* be assembling these. Craig, I can't tell you how much the program is worth to me. Thank you for all the hard work you continually put into it!  These  icons  are  dedicated  to  the  Japanese  Macintosh-using community, for bringing to the Mac so much enthusiastic support and for bringing the world such prolific, beautiful and challenging icon work. Domo arigato!

     Legality:
     World  Of  Aqua  2  is  copyright  ©2001  The  Iconfactory.  The  icons contained in this set are intended for free, and non-commercial  use  ONLY.  These  icons  can  only  be  distributed  as freeware, and MAY NOT BE REDISTRIBUTED, SOLD OR EXCHANGED  FOR  ANY  GOODS OR SERVICES WHATSOEVER. In addition, the read-me file must accompany the set at all times. By downloading this file you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this agreement.

     Setting custom icons in Mac OS X
     The  first  thing  you  need to know is that getting information for a file or folder works a little differently than it does  in Mac OS 9. In Mac OS 9 (and earlier), when you press Command-I, you get a Get Info window for each item you have selected in the Finder. With Mac OS X, there is no Get Info.  Get  Info  has  been  replaced  with  an "Inspector". The inspector is shown or hidden when you press Command-I. It also behaves differently; every time you select something in the Finder, the inspector shows additional information about the item.  The  good  news is that even though the Inspector works differently, it still allows you to change icons for most desktop items.

     Here is a step-by-step guide for setting a folder icon:
     1) Select a file or folder that has the icon you want to use.
     2) Press Command-I to bring up the Inspector panel.
     3) Click on the icon once. You should see a gray border around the icon (see figure.)
     4) Press Command-C to copy the icon. Do NOT close the inspector panel.
     5) Select the file or folder that you want to customize. Press Command-V to paste the icon.
     That's it!

     Changing the Hard Drive
     You may notice that the copy and paste operation mentioned above won't work on the main hard drive. When you click on the icon, there is no gray border.  To change the hard drive, we suggest you download our helpful PDF guide to setting desktop icons for Mac OS X.  http://www.iconfactory.com/software/setting_osx_icons.hqx

     Important Notes About Copying & Pasting 8.5+ Icons
     In  Mac  OS  8.5  and above, there are two types of custom icons you can use: old-style with only 256 colors and the new style with 32-bit icons. The Finder only copies and pastes the new style.  This is a more efficient use of disk space.  However,  if you paste the Mac OS 8.5 icon on removable media, such as a floppy or Zip disk, the icon won't show up when you move to an older version of the OS. You'll also have problems on a network server and an older client Mac.  By  default, the Iconfactory's IconDropper 3.2 utility pastes both kinds of icons so they will show up on any version of the   OS  that  supports  custom  icons.  To  learn  more  about IconDropper  3.2,  please  visit  the  Iconfactory  at <http://www.iconfactory.com> Thanks!

     How To make Use of Icons:
     The  most common use of custom icons is as a replacement for the standard file and folder icons that are built into your Mac's  operating  system.  Many people find that it is much easier to find a file that you are looking for by spotting a cool,  colorful icon rather than by its name. Icons can be cut and pasted onto almost any item on the Macintosh. For the most part however, they are just a whole lot of fun. As for how to apply them, here is the most straight forward way:

     1. On your desktop, select the icon you would like to use
     2. Select "Get Info" (command-I) from the File Menu for that icon
     3. Click on the icon in the upper left of the window
     4. Choose "Copy" (command-C) from the Edit menu
     5. Close the window
     6. Select the file/folder you want to apply that icon to
     7. Select "Get Info" (File menu) for that icon
     8. Click on the icon in the upper left of the window
     9. Select "Paste" (command-V) from the Edit Menu.
     (this method won't work on the trash can)
     10. You're done!

     Contact The Author:
     Dave Brasgalla - dave@iconfactory.com
     The Iconfactory - webmaster@iconfactory.com

     More Stuff for your Mac:
     As  a showcase for all of our pixel-pushing icon work, we've created a place called The Iconfactory. The Iconfactory has quickly  established  itself  as  a  premiere  web  destination  for Macintosh icons. If you love to collect top-quality freeware icons for your Mac, then The Iconfactory is for you! We would love to have you add The Iconfactory to your list of bookmarks. The URL is: http://www.iconfactory.com If  desktop patterns are more your cup of tea, then you'll want to visit The DeskStop: 3D Desktop Patterns for your Mac.  Mindy  Weaver  &  Gedeon Maheux have started the site as a one-stop source for cool, dimensional textures for use on the web, with 3D modeling software or just on your Mac's desktop. Drop by The DeskStop today at: http://www.thedeskstop.com
